<h1>IPTABLES Introduction</h1>
In a real-world production environment, there are lots of different clients and many different servers all connected through a large network. With
many different switches and routers, it is important to have network security to allow or restrict access to the various services. This allows us to control
network connectivity, such as allowing SSH access from a specific IP or a network range. We can apply security network-wide using external firewalls or 
appliances such as Cisco ASA, Juniper NGFW, Barracuda NGFW, and Fortinet. Uing these appliances, we can define rules that will control any traffic
flowing through the network. Or, an alternate option is to apply these rules at an individual server level using tool such as IPTABLEs and firewalld in linux
systems and firewall in windows server. 

To install iptable, use the command
 ```console
 $ sudo apt install iptables
 ```
Once iptables is installed, run command to list the default rules configured in the system
 ```console
 $ # list default rules configured in the system
 $ sudo iptables -L

 Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
 target         prot opt source             destination

 Chain Forward (policy ACCEPT)
 target         prot opt source             destination

 Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
 target         prot opt source             destination
 ```
 The INPUT Chain is applicable to network packets coming into the system. To allow the SSH connection from the client laptop, we need to add an input role on the devapp server premitting SSH connection.

 The OUTPUT Chain is responsible for connections initiated by the server to other systems. Manages all network packets generated locally bt the server that are destined to leave the system. 

 The FORWARD Chain: network packages coming into the linux server that are to be routed out through another network interface on the server. This rule is not commonly used in a linux server. 

 Since we have not added any rules, the default policy is st to accept. It means that all traffic is allowed in and out of the system. 

 Why are they called chains
