<h1>Cronjobs</h1>
For instance, let say you have to run a command 
 ```console
 $ uptime >> /tmp/system-report.txt
 ```
and redirect the results to a file called /tmp/system_report.txt. However, what if the command has to be run only at 9pm
everyday? This is when we use cron job. 

With a cron job, a user can specify any date, time, or frequency to schedule a task. Once defined, the system will execute the task at the set time without any human intervention. 
This functionlity is enabled by the cron daemon service that runs in the background. To schedule the job, run the command
 ```console
 $ crontab -e 
 ```
When you run the command, it will open the crontab in the VI editor
 ```console
 # For example, you can run a backup of all your user accounts 
 # at 5 a.m every week with:
 # 0 5 ** 1 tar -zcf /var/backups/home.tgz/home/
 #
 # m h   dom mon dow      command 
   0 21  *   *   *        uptime >> /tmp/system-report.txt
 ```
 The first five fields are used to specify the exact schedule to run the task. The sixth field is the command to run, which in our c ase is the command called uptime. 
 Do not use sudo with the crontab command, or the job will be scheduled for the root user. 

<h3>Meaning of the 5 fields </h3>
For example, you scheduling a task to run at 8:10 am on February 19th Monday. 
```console
10: minutes
8: hour
19: day
2: month
1: weekday
*: indictes any value
```
To run the job at 10 minutes past 8 on the 19th of all months, set the month value to a star.
```console
10: minutes
8: hour
19: day
*: month
*: weekday
```
To run the job at 10 minutes past 8 on all days of all month, set the day value to a star.
```console
10: minutes
8: hour
*: day
*: month
*: weekday
```
To run the job at 10 minutes past all hours on all day of all months, set the hour value to star.
```console
10: minutes
*: hour
*: day
*: month
*: weekday
```
To run the job every minute of every hour on all days of all months, set the minute value to a star. Your job will now run every minute.
```console
*: minutes
*: hour
*: day
*: month
*: weekday
```
